---
title: Meetings & Next.js
date: 2023-01-10
---

I had a short meeting to discus what endpoints would be needed first to get an 
idea of which ones to prioritize. I created issues for the things we discussed 
in the back-end repository to track my work and so others can pick some up if 
they chose to.

I also had to help other members set up the back-end again today. This definitely 
encourages me to dockerize the application. For the most immediate fix though 
I will add more detailed documentation on how to set up the project and any 
pre-requisites. I'm now wishing that we had both projects on the same repo to 
easily run the app as a whole.

I made progress with going through the Next.js learning tutorial. I can kind 
relate some things to Astro and can imagine how much "magic" Astro does behind 
the scenes so we don't have to worry about boilerplate. 

For example, because Astro.js is intended for content-focused websites like 
blogs so it's able to parse your markdown files and read the metadata from it. 
To do this with Next.js, you'd have to install graymatter to parse the 
metadata and create your own function to read the posts from the system.

Still, I think that it was a good choice to switch my focus on Next.js as it 
can do both static sites and web applications. I also think that once I get a 
good grasp of using Next.js, it will be easier to learn other libraries or 
frameworks such as Remix or Qwik.

Tomorrow I will continue the Next.js tutorial. I will also attend my class's 
resume workshop. After the workshop, I will attend our Liftoff group's meeting.
Depending on how much time I have in between these events, I might try to use 
the limited Next.js knowledge I have to make this blog into a proper blog site.
