---
title: Exploring web frameworks
date: 2023-01-09
tags: ['log', 'web']
---

Today I helped one of my project team members set up the project on their 
local machine. It wasn't too difficult, but it does make me wonder if we 
should use Docker to easily set up and get the project running. It also made 
me aware that there are things we need to fix, but are very trivial. 

I finished going through the Astro tutorial and learned how to build a simple
blog. It's really simple and enjoyable to use honestly. It's probably not the
right tool if you want to develop SPA web apps however. Because of this, I'm
thinking that I'd probably only use Astro for my blog or portfolio, but that it
isn't worth putting too much time into learning the more advanced things as I 
won't be using it as much.

WIth that in mind, I started exploring other web frameworks, including Next.js
and Qwik.js. Next.js is more established and has a lot of resources available,
so I think it will be a good choice for my learning journey. Qwik.js is still
in beta and has a focus on quick initial load times, which could be useful for
certain types of projects. I'm also interested in exploring other frameworks to
get a better understanding of how web applications are typically structured and
developed today.

Overall I think it makes the most sense for me to focus on Next.js since it 
can tackle a bit of both which I think is worth investing my time into.

I also managed to set up a basic NeoVim config for now. Emacs is a lot to 
learn, so I put that on pause. One of the reasons is, that I couldn't get lsp 
or highlighting to work for the .astro files while it was easier to figure out 
how to do that with NeoVim.

Tomorrow I will have a short meeting with another one of my project teammates 
to discuss what endpoints they'll need and get an idea of which to prioritize.
I'll also probably start on the Next.js tutorial, and configuring some of 
my keybindings for NeoVim.
